The solution will cover Part one of your global superstore challenge.
Task one was to create a controller class and assign it a name of your choice.
So we'll go ahead and do just that.
I will create a new file called Store Controller Java.
And I will make this into a controller class.
In Task two.
If a user makes a get request on an empty path, we need to map that request to a handler method called
get form and then get form will return the form view.
Before we can do that, since we're returning a form template, we need to make sure that we have final
leaf installed, which we do perfect.
And now we can just declare a handler method that can receive get requests on an empty path.
The handler method is going to be called.
Get form.
And then we'll return the form string.
Okay.
Before we do anything, it's good to just keep testing things as you go along, even if what we did
was fairly trivial.
So we'll spin up a new terminal.
I'll run my code using Maven clean spring boot to run.
All right.
Now I can just say local host, 80.
80.
The request goes to my handler method and it returns the form templates.
Beautiful.
Now the next step is to populate the dropdown list with values from the array in constants dot Java.
So if you press the button right now there are only two options choose category and a placeholder option.
Our dropdown list can be populated with an array of values, so we're going to keep the choose category
option and every option that comes after must be generated by an array using final leaf.
So we will.
Upon returning the form, we'll need access to our model.
Because ultimately it's the model that provides the data to our review.
So now we can say model does not add attribute.
The attribute we are going to add will be named categories.
And this categories key will map to our constants dot categories array.
So here we'll say constants dot categories.
All right.
And now back, in my view, inside former HTML.
I have one option that says choose category.
And every option that comes after needs to be generated by a timely loop.
So here I can say if each is equal to.
First I can use a variable expression to retrieve the model attributes.
The model attribute is named categories.
But that's going to do is fetch our array of categories and then this loop is going to run through every
single category.
In the categories array.
And for every option that gets generated from this timely loop, we're going to set the text.
Equal to the category that's currently being iterated through.
And as before, we can use a variable expression to return a value that derives from the model object
category.
All right.
If I go ahead and refresh.
Beautiful.
Well, right now it's down to task number four.
And Task Force tells us that the value attribute is needed to determine what will be sent upon form
submission.
So this text value that each option is displaying means nothing.
This is just what's displayed to the user.
But what the option value actually equals is determined with the value attribute.
So it tells us that the option displaying choose category should equal a blank value.
So here we will say value.
Is equal to blank.
If the user were to choose the choose category option and then press submit the value that would be
sent back in the post request would be blank.
But if the user were to choose any other option like furniture, office supplies or technology, then
the value that it equals should match the text being displayed.
So if the user were to select furniture, we would want the value being sent to back to be furniture.
So here we can say.
Value is equal to and hmm.
We would need to grab the category that's currently being iterated through.
To do that, we need a family expression.
Well, thankfully, family provides a timely value attribute.
You always need this when you're evaluating a family's expression.
So the value attribute is just straight up html.
Finally, value allows it to obtain its results from a leaf expression.
Nothing too complicated.
And now it's worth mentioning that let's just say I work to avoid all this and just say value equals
apple.
Then no matter what the user selects, the value that will be sent back to the server will be Apple.
But obviously we're not going to do that.
All right.
And for task five, if the user were to make a request on path inventory, we want to intercept the
request with a handler method called get inventory and that method will return the inventory view.
Simple enough.
We'll go back to our store controller and we'll define a gut mapping annotation that will intercept
requests on slash inventory, and the handler method to handle that request will be get inventory.
And what that's going to do is just return the inventory view.
All right.
Slash inventory.
And we see a table with static data, nothing too interesting, but we'll be fixing that up in the next
few workbooks.
Now, the next step is to instrument the form and inventory buttons on the top navigator to make gut
requests on their respective paths.
Simple enough, we can use a link expression.
As we have done many times in the past.
So here in this anchor tag, we'll define finally a ref.
And we'll set that equal to a link expression, which starts with an add symbol followed by two brackets.
And the URL is context relative.
So we can just specify the path.
And here we'll do the same thing.
This will make get requests on the path inventory.
And we will apply the same thing inside of our inventory.
HTML.
And I'll paste the same thing here.
But this will make requests on the home page and sure enough, this should work.
Let's go back and make some requests.
I'll go to inventory, then I'll go to form there and back.
Beautiful.
Now Task seven was optional.
So if you want to stop here, by all means, but I'm going to use a breakpoints to trace the runtime
of get requests made on different paths.
So I'm going to apply the breakpoints to my handler methods and then I will stop the runtime using Control
C And I'll go ahead and run the application in debug mode.
If you're using IntelliJ, you should have already learned how to do this by now.
All right.
The first request we're going to make will be on local host 8080.
The handler method intercepts the request.
And if I step over this line.
It adds data to the model such that the categories key maps to an array of string values.
And then right before we return, the form finally has access to all of this model data.
So here we're using a variable expression to grab the categories array inside of the model.
And what it's going to do is for each category in the categories array, it's going to generate an option
and the option that gets generated will equal a text that matches the current category that's being
iterated through.
And that same option is going to equal a value that matches the text being displayed.
There are three categories that were looping through.
So finally, each is going to generate three options.
Press next.
And it does just that.
Let's make that same request on slash inventory.
Nothing too crazy here.
It just makes a request on slash inventory.
This handler method intercepts it and it just returns the inventory view.